Something I've been thinking about lately is how human relationships are formed. People talk to others frequently and in the most random places, but the conversation always has to do with how open to relationships those involved are. And, I mean, I'm not talking about romantic ones, but the same is true for friendships, work colleagues, or even just someone you meet at a bus station or a geek event, for example. Some people struggle because of how their parents treated them when they were younger, and some just feel like they're bothering others when talking about their interests.

How can someone who simply doesn't talk start talking? Is it by overcoming the fear of awkwardness? Or is it by just trying and ignoring the awkwardness when it happens? And what's really the problem with talking and feeling awkward? People are different, varied—it's obvious that you'll never find someone exactly the same as another person. But the more variety of people you have in your life, the less awkward you feel in interactions, just by gaining experience in them.

And really, what's the big deal with awkwardness? Everyone feels it, but most people are too busy worrying about _their_ own awkwardness to even notice yours. Just get out there, talk, make mistakes, and you'll survive. Maybe even thrive, who knows? I think the more we try at something, the more we discover that some things are just the way they are, but most of them we can change as we want, just by wanting and doing things that we know are effective, even if it is only a little.